(bright music)
Next up we need to work
on this inventory part here
where I'd be able to edit the price of a fish
and it can sync to Firebase and all that good stuff.
So we are going to open up our inventory.js
and we are going to create a new Component,
not called AddFishForm,
but EditFishForm.
So we'll go into our Components folder,
we'll make a new file called EditFishForm.js.
And then we'll do our whole song and dance
of import React from React
and then I'm gonna go hyper speed.
Okay, so I've imported a React,
I've made a new class with a render method
and it just says edit fish in a paragraph tag
and I exported the default EditFishForm.
Then we'll go into our inventory
and we wanna loop over all of our different fish.
First question,
do we even have our fish in the inventory Component?
Let's double check that.
So I'll go to our app,
let's open up our React dev tools
and we'll search for inventory.
And nope,
there's only add fish and load sample fish functions.
So we'll go back into our app Component here
and we'll find where we did this
and we'll just say fish is equal to this.state.fishes.
Good.
Then we'll go back into our inventory Component,
we will import our EditFishForm
and then we'll go right above our AddFishForm
and say this.props.fishes.map.
And for each fish we are going to
render out a EditFishForm tag.
So what does that give us?
A big old error.
So what happened here?
Cannot read property map of undefined.
Oh, that's because this.props.fishes
is gonna be an object.
So we'll say object.keys,
this.props.fishes.maps.
So we'll turn that into an array before we map over it.
And what else have we got here?
Cannot convert null or undefined to an object.
So I'll show you how I debug this as well.
Take that line off that's causing us an issue
and we'll look at our inventory.
And I passed it as fish, not fishes.
So I'll go back to our app,
fishes.
Good.
Probably screaming at me for minutes.
There we go.
So for every fish that we have,
we have this edit fish Component showing up.
So EditFishForm.
See we got (buzzing lips)
all these Component being rendered out.
Then instead of our edit fish we are going to
return a div with the class of fish edit.
So this doesn't need to be a form tag,
this can just be a regular old div.
And then inside of that I'm gonna do
a little bit more kung fu,
where we've got our name,
price, status, description.
And I'm going to make all of those
into an input with the type of text,
the name of and whatever that is.
So the name is important here
and I'll show you why in just a second.
So we've got a whole bunch of input boxes.
The status needs to be put into a select,
which I'll add that there.
Select.
And the options we can actually pull
the options right from our select here.
Beautiful.
And our description needs to be a text area.
Good, we've got a text area.
And our drop down, everything.
So now let's hook the values actually up to the fish.
So we don't actually have the individual fish
being passed down to our EditFishForm,
so we'll go back to our inventory.
And we have this fish here
and this is actually not a fish.
Let's change that to key
'cause that is just a key of the actual fish.
And then we'll pass the individual fish down
by saying this.props.fishes,
square bracket, key.
And if that worked,
let me search for our EditFishForm.
There we go.
See every single EditFishForm has
an individual description for each of the individual fishes.
So we can go back and we can set
the value of all these inputs to be the value from props.
So status,
name,
price,
description,
and image.
Say value is equal to this.props.fish.
Whatever the actual name is.
Now this is gonna yell at us
and we're not using default value
and I explain why in just a second.
But let's see how it works.
Beautiful.
Pacific halibut,
fresh.
You see that by default it switches this one to sold out,
which is great.
And there are some errors in the console,
so let's deal with them one by one.
Each child in an array,
oh we always get this one.
So let's go to inventory and we're looping over
and returning a fish for each one.
So we need to say key is equal to key
so that each EditFishForm is unique.
Does that get rid of that one?
Yep.
Now this one.
Warning, failed prop type.
You provided a value prop on a form field
without an onChange handler.
This will render a read-only field.
So try typing one of these.
Nothing.
Nothing happens.
And that's because React doesn't like it
when you put state into an editable area
without you having a plan for updating it.
Why?
Because as soon as you put state into a text box,
now all of a sudden you've got state in two spots.
You've got state in your actual state
and you have state in a text box.
And now it's all spread across two different areas
and that can get out of hand real quickly.
So what React does is rather than you
typing into an input box,
what it does is it will intercept the event that you create.
I'm gonna type the X key into the pacific halibut.
Bam, hit it.
What it will do is immediately backspace it
and be like no, no, no,
you must put it into state if you want that to change.
So what we would have to do is go to our app,
go to our fishes,
go to this first one and change it
and put Xs in it.
And that will of course update it.
But if we want to be able to type into here,
we need to listen for an OnChange event.
So that's exactly what we're gonna be doing.
Back to our EditFishForm.
On each of these values that we have here,
so just gonna go to select all my values.
And I'm gonna say OnChange is equal to
this.handlechange.
Then we're gonna,
oh nice formatting there.
I guess as soon as you hit for it'll
bring it onto its own line.
Then up here we're going to make
a handle change method of our own.
And that method is going to take in the event.
And then we're just gonna console log the event
and that's good enough for now.
So as soon as I put my cursor in here and type an X,
the console is gonna console log this proxy
which is this is the actual event that's happening.
See?
It's running the event every single time.
And on that event there's something
called event.currenttarget.
And the current target is the thing
that the event got fired on.
So that should give us the actual input box.
There we go.
See how this is a bit of a different way
to do it versus refs?
We can just grab the event.target
and then we can grab the event.target.value out of it.
And if I put an X on the end here,
you see how it's console logging
whatever it is that I'm trying to type,
but it's not updating the text box?
'cause React is like nuh uh uh,
it's not in state.
So what we need to do is create an updated fish object
and then somehow swim upstream (chuckles)
from EditFishForm to inventory,
and then from inventory to app.
We need to get that updated fish back into our state.
Okay, okay.
So let's first go here.
Let's say update that fish.
So first thing we're gonna do is one,
take a copy of the current fish.
So say const updated fish
is equal to dot, dot, dot,
this.props.fish.
And let's just console log the updated fish,
see what we're working with here.
So we've got the updated fish,
we've got the description,
pacific halibut,
but I'm putting an X on the end of this.
So what we need to do is we need to update the name, right?
So what you can do is go here
and let's put this object on its own line
so it looks a little nicer.
And ideally what would happen is we would
update the name to be event.currenttarget.value.
So give that a save.
And now if I put an X on the end,
our new updated fish has an X on the end.
But what if wanna change the price?
If I put a two in front of it
you see it doesn't work.
Why?
Well that's because it doesn't know
which property to actually update.
So what we can do is this is a new thing in ES6,
it's called computed property names,
where we essentially want the value
that's being updated to also be dynamic.
And the way that you can do that is with square brackets.
And this is why I told you to put a name on there,
let me take this and comment that out for a sec,
if we console log event.currenttarget.name,
then it will tell us that the name was updated,
the price was updated,
the status was updated,
the description was updated,
and the image was updated.
So we can figure out what got changed
just by using the event.currenttarget.name
and setting it to the event.currenttarget.value.
So that's really nice.
We just take a copy of the current fish
and then overwrite the one thing that changed.
And I really like this,
because sometimes I see people making
like handle name change,
handle description change,
handle status change,
you make a new method for every single field
and that's not really maintainable
because you're doing all kinds of stuff there.
So if this worked,
I should be able to,
oh man, how does JavaScript work?
I forgot a comma.
There we go.
If this works I should be able to change the halibut.
Good.
And it still doesn't show there
'cause we haven't updated state,
but I see that there's an X there.
And now if I put a nine on the end of the price,
the new updated fish shows me a nine.
Good.
So now the question is how do I
get this updated fish to swim upstream?
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna go back
to where our state is and that is our app Component.
We're going to right below addFish,
we're gonna make an updateFish property
and that method is going to take in a key,
which is which fish is getting updated
and a updated fish.
And what that will do is it will simply
take a copy of the current fish.
one, take a copy of the current state.
Const, fishes equals this.state.fishes
'cause it's not props 'cause we are actually
in the Component where the state is living.
And then two,
update that state.
And we can just say fishes,
square bracket,
key, is equal to updated fish.
We could also use the computed
property value there if you like.
And then three,
set that to state.
This.setstate, fishes.
Fishes or hot shot just fishes will work there.
Oh, a couple mistakes there.
Beautiful.
Okay, now we have this update fish function
that should take in a key and an updated fish.
We'll go down to our inventory and pass it.
So instead of passing addFish
or in addition to passing addFish,
we'll pass updateFish.
Then we'll go into our inventory
and we need to pass it one step further via props.
So we'll go in here,
say updateFish is equal to this.props.updateFish.
Beautiful.
And then we'll go into our EditFishForm
and we should be able to say this.props.updateFish
and it takes the key and it takes the updated fish.
So we actually have a variable
called updatedFish so that's good.
We'll put that in there,
but where do we get the key from?
Well again,
we've run into this problem where we don't
actually know what the key is,
because we haven't yet passed it into this Component.
I'll show you.
Let's go to React,
let's look for EditFishForm.
And we do see the key right here,
but remember that we can't access the key
when we're inside of a Component.
So if we need that for whatever reason,
we need to pass it down ourselves.
So let's go back to inventory
and we'll call this key
and we'll pass down as index as well.
So here,
say this,
we'll remove that key and say this.props.index.
So let's go through exactly what's happening there
'cause I know that was a lot.
First of all,
we have an input where the value is set to our fish name
and that in turn is living in state.
Then when something changes on that input,
we call this function called handleChange.
React will then automatically
backspace that change that we did,
but we can get the value of what
the person had hoped to type in event.currenttarget.value
and we can take that value and update our fish
by using the event.currenttarget.value
and we can only update the one field
that got updated by using the input's name.
And then finally,
we send all of those changes upstream to our app Component,
because that's where our state lives
with the updateFish functions.
So let's see if it actually works.
Put an X on it.
Of course it doesn't.
Type error,
this.props.updatedfih.
There's no D there.
There we go.
Should that do it?
(cheers) It seems to be working.
Atlantic halibut.
Beautiful.
And also if you check your Firebase
you should see it also working there.
You can also change the price of your value
and it is updated.
And this is the beauty of React
is that anywhere your values are used,
you can simply just pull in the values
and update the variables down there.
So that is being able to sync our data
and that is generally how you wanna handle
inputs where your state will live in an input.